= Vanities

Vanities is a gem for use with a Rails 3 project that will transform
URLs like this:

  http://example.com/users/1

Into something cool, like this:

  http://example.com/foo

== The Vanity URL Explained

Vanities implements the concept of the "vanity URL".  Similar to a vanity
license plate, it's a unique name or ID chosen by the user that is specific to them.
However, this doesn't necessarily have to be for a user - in theory, any model in your
Rails 3 application can use a vanity URL.

This gem works by redirecting requests for a vanity name - say "foo" - to the object
that owns it.  So for example, visiting example.com/foo would perform a redirect to
example.com/users/1 (assuming a user object with an ID of 1 owned the "foo" vanity).

== Common Use Cases

Some common use cases for something like vanities would be:
* user profiles (www.example.com/users/22829 => www.example.com/leeroy)
* specific products in an e-commerce system (www.exampleshop.com/products/19920 => www.exampleshop.com/buythis)

== How To Install

Vanities is pretty simple to install.  First, a few requirements and caveats:

=== Requirements

<b>REST-based models</b> - every model with which you want to use vanities MUST be made
a RESTful resource in your routes file (config/routes.rb).  This is absolutely required.

<b>Rails 3</b> - vanities is built on Rails 3.  It might work with older versions of Rails, but
only if you go back and reverse engineer some of the routing stuff, and possibly other things
if using versions of Rails prior to the 2.3.x series.

<b>ActiveRecord</b> - vanities needs a table in the database to keep track of the individual
vanity names.  Datamapper and/or -otherorm- isn't/aren't supported out of the box, but the
setup itself is so simple that you could probably reverse-engineer this to use another ORM
if you wanted to.

<b>Letters-Only for Vanity URLs</b> - Vanity URLs can contain letters only - no numbers.  If you
don't like this functionality, you can manually remove the regular expression call in the
route for the vanities controller.

=== Installation

In your application's Gemfile, add the following line:

  gem 'vanities'

Then in your console/terminal, do:

  bundle install

Next, while still in your terminal/console:

  rails g vanities

You'll see a list of instructions that it'll print out.  Next you'll want to
open up your model that you want to have a vanity URL (say a User model) and add this
line to it to substitute the polymorphic association that does all the magic:

  has_vanity

Finally, do:

  rake db:migrate

And you're all set!

== Using vanities

Every model that has a call to 'has_vanity' will have a vanity object associated with it.
Each instance of your model will have one - and only one - vanity.  Vanities CANNOT be repeated
across different models.  For example, let's say you have a user with a vanity called "leeroy", and
a product; you cannot call the product's vanity "leeroy" as well, as that's already taken by
the aforementioned user.

To set up a vanity for a model, all you need to do is create a vanity.  Say you're in the Rails
console.  This would be as simple as:

  u = User.first
  u.vanity = Vanity.new(:name => "leeroy")

Finally, you can go to http://localhost:3000/leeroy to be automatically redirected
to the user's 'show' action.